Hi and welcome back to pelf three of the single dispatch generic function so we've seen how we could
write those decorator right.
We have a decorator that decorates the default function right.
Which was the function that we had here.
Initially when we create we use the single dispatch decorator.
This becomes the default function associated with the object key in the dictionary.
And then that single dispatch decorator returns a decorated him Tim allies which itself now has an attribute
of register that we can use to register other types and inject that into the dictionary.
In addition we saw how we could actually expose the registry dictionary which I wouldn't do but you
certainly can.
And we also were able to create this dispatch function that we could use to ask the h tim Elisir which
function are you going to use a 2:05 this specific type.
So we also saw that we have some problems where things weren't very general we couldn't for example
register a sequence or an integral number and then expect to walk the way we intended to because we're
using type instead of using things that use inheritance.
So we need to fix that up and there's a very very simple way to fix it up of course because this is
Python and Python as you know is you know known as a batteries included language which means that it
actually includes a decorator that's in the standard library for doing exactly what we've done.
So all the work that we've done so far we're not going to use.
However you should now have a really good understanding of how the single dispatch decorator in Python
works how its internal mechanics work.
It's more complicated than what we've done because we've got to handle a few different things.
And when it was time handling also these more generic kind of types.
There's other factors that become important as well that could become bugs if we don't handle them properly.
So let's go ahead and look at that decorator that built in and I'll show you what some of the bugs are
and what you have to watch out for when you start using things like sequence for example and sort of
list and topple and string which is also a sequence type.
So let's go ahead and say from thunked tools and bolt single dispatch that's what it's called.
The same name that we use.
So from thumb tools impled single dispatch of that single dispatch.
Now is the one from the standard library.
And of course it's in the frontals module.
Lots of useful tools and the tools Montu we already have numbers and sequence but I'm just going to
re-import them.
And if you've restarted your notebook then you should do that as well.
Otherwise you won't have them.
So let's go ahead and import those two things.
And now let's go ahead and do our H-2 analyzer again.
But this time using the built in single dispatch decorator.
So we're going to decorate it just as normal.
This will now become the default function that gets used when that argument type is not specifically
registered in the on that registry dictionary.
And we're going to return escaped.
And of string of the argument.
OK so now we have that and h tim allies is the decorated function.
And the single dispatch decorator provides a number of things.
One is that it is a decorator itself.
Just like all single dispatch was it has a registry attribute just like we had except we ended up by
removing it.
But it isn't there.
You can actually access the dictionary so let's see.
And you have this.
Now that's not exactly a dictionary it's a different object.
We won't get into that.
But here's the essentially the key and the associated function just like we had in our example.
And then we also have the dispatch function so aged him allies does dispatch and let's say we tell it's
hey what happens if I give you a string.
What are you going to do.
And it tells us I'm going to use h tim allies.
So it's going to use the default.
Right.
So think of this h tim allys when you create when you start a single dispatch function then the first
one that you do that you use with the single dispatch decorator becomes your default function essentially
just like we had in our own example.
Now we can go ahead and register.
It also has the register attribute.
So we can go ahead and say Tim allies which is that decorated function DOPs register and let's go ahead
and register the integral.
So remember that this wasn't working.
In our case.
So let's go ahead and see how this works here integral.
And we're going to say Big H Tim lies in a.
And what is it going to do.
While he can I'm going to go back and just copy paste.
So there we go that and going to call it in.
I'm going to quote integral number just like we had before and it's going to return that k.
So now we've injected that into that dictionary and we can check that by looking at the registry and
the registry is there.
We have numbers.
Integral is that.
And now we can actually before we call it we can look at the dispatch we can say what are you going
to use if I pass you an integer and you remember that with owls that use the default here however you'll
notice that it's going to use the integral number the HDMI lies integral number.
Why.
Because it handles this correctly an int is an integral because we have is instance let's take integer
numbers.
So its type is int.
Right.
The type of 10 is int but in terms of an instance yes it is an instance of int but it is also an instance
of integral number and
integral that's the class name.
So it is an instance of integral numbers as well and the same thing with Boolean instance
that's true.
The answer to that is true as well.
So if we now also asked to dispatch what would it do if we passed a boolean.
You'll notice that h tim l eyes the dispatch you'll notice it also correctly uses the integral number
function that we associated with an integral data type.
When we registered here.
So now of course we can call h him allies on 10.
We get what we expect we can call h tim allys Hong true and we get what we expect as well.
We can also now register sequence types like lists and tuples.
So let's go ahead and grab that code.
So here's what we did right.
And actually I can copy even the decorator because it's actually the same decorator.
Right.
It's h tim allies.
That's the one we're using register and this time we're going to register a sequence.
Now let's see what the sequence does it says OK it's going to take every item in the sequence I'm using
this comprehension and all the generator expression and I'm taking every item in there and I'm going
to h tim Elize each item because I need to encase the item that's inside the list is maybe an integer
in which case I want to be H to memorize as well.
Right.
But.
So let's go ahead and do that.
OK.
So that's what it does.
And then it creates those strings and then it concatenates them basically and then wraps them up in
those you will text.
So now we have this h tim l sequence that's defined for sequence types in general so we can say h tim
l eyes.
One true.com 3.
And you'll notice we get that back.
That's great.
That works exactly as intended.
But there is a problem right.
It works with couples as well.
I'll show you that one two three.
OK.
We get that back.
But the problem is this.
Let's say I pass it a string that say I pass it Python.
What is python.
What's the type of Python Yes it's a string.
Or what else.
It's a sequence type.
In fact let's see his ends.
Turns Python of sequence.
And the answer is true.
So guess what's going to happen when we pass that in
what happened.
Maximum recursion depth exceeded what happened.
So we basically had an overflow error right.
We we exceeded the number of recursive calls that we can make Remember what we discussed with causin
earlier in Python.
There is a maximum you can change the maximum but the point is something's going wrong here.
And the something that's going wrong is because Python is itself a sequence.
Right a string is a sequence.
And let's go back to the code.
Let's see what we're doing here.
We're saying that if you take if you get a sequence string as a sequence to get a string go ahead and
grab every item in the string.
What is the item in the string.
Well remember when we would have you know if you want to see that we can just do something like this
for s in Python.
Print s we get the characters each character.
So basically what this is doing here with this loop here item an L it's grabbing the characters in the
string Python one by one what is each element.
What is the type of each element.
It's a string and we're calling h tim allies on the string again.
So it's saying all OK I have a sequence because the string is a sequence.
So it's going to call stem time sequence on the item on the P.
Let's say as the false character.
So it gets that.
And so this runs and it says OK for every item in P.
Well there's only one but it's still doing the same thing.
It again calls h tim allies on P which means it's going to end up calling the sequence again.
And so we have an infinite loop.
We have a problem.
So these are things that again we have to be careful with in our own code.
How would we fix this.
Well with the built in one or the one in the in the standard library it's quite simple.
All we need to do is to actually define the function that we need to use for strings.
We don't want to handle strings like we do a regular sequence like for example a list or a couple we
want to handle strings a little bit differently.
So let's go ahead and grab the function that we use for strings.
It's somewhere we'll find it.
It's somewhere
think all the way at the top.
There we go.
Here's how we handle strings right.
So let's go ahead let's go back to the bottom and let's say etched in our lives.
Don't register this time I'm going to register for a string specifically this thing over here.
OK.
So now we have a specific registry entry for a string type.
So enough we say it implies Python.
You'll notice it actually does it correctly.
Five put in some you know extra characters and we'll leave it at that.
I'm going to do a multi-line string but you'll notice it does it correctly.
It doesn't get into that infinite recursion but you'll notice that it's not that simple because when
we pass the sin.
Right.
This is a string.
It is also a sequence.
So what's the what the decorated does with the you know what that look up function does inside our arm
and inside our single dispatch decorator or from the standard library.
It finds the closest match.
So yes it gets a string.
A string is a sequence but a string is also a string.
And there is something specific for strings in the registry which is less generic than sequence.
So it's kind of lower in the you know class hierarchy in the inheritance hierarchy if you want to think
of it that way a string.
So Python is a string.
A string is a sequence.
But Python is Koza to string that it is to sequence.
So it's good to use string.
So that's what I meant what I was saying that earlier if we implement this ourselves it actually gets
quite complicated.
Not only do we have to handle these more general types like sequins or integral but we also have to
find the closest match up in this hierarchy of class inheritance you know chains.
So it gets a lot more complicated and it is in the standard library and if you want to see how it's
done.
Again you can bring up something like pie chow.
You can import the on you can import the single dispatch from the from tools and you can go and basically
look at the code.
Let's take a look at that very quickly and see what it looks like.
So here I just have a blank python file.
So I'm going to say from phunk tools impuls single dispatch and all I'm going to do is I'm going to
double click and I'm going to sort of double click on when to right click on single dispatch and go
to the declaration.
And here we have the single dispatch decorator.
And so you have the code available right here.
If you want to see how it's done and it gets quite complicated.
But essentially it's kind of what we did except they have more work to do in order to figure out you
know what the best type matches in the registry.
OK.
So back to our tip of the notebook and let me show you for example also where something like this might
be useful.
So we've registered sequence right.
So if we say H-2 implies of a sequence let's say a list 1 to 3 we get this representation.
And if we do it for a top hold we also get the same representation because a tuple and a list are both
sequences.
But let's say that we want something that's a little bit more specific for topples we don't want to
we don't want to use the more generic sequence representation we want something specific for topple
We'll just like we did with string.
We're just going to create a function that we're going to register.
That's going to handle tuples specifically.
So let's say that's an argument is Tiv and let's say we want to do something else with the couple we
want to maybe just take all the items that are in the top all and we're just going to escape each item.
Because again we want to make sure that we have correct H-2 him.
Fourth item in t.
So we're just going to create all items.
And so we're just going to return
this couple.
And we're going to format it with we're going to basically join all the items that are in items now
which basically were in the top all but escaped and we're going to join that up
and actually joined called join kept.
And so that's going to be what we use.
And of course I have to call him old eyes not to celebrate Easter.
OK.
So age to my.
So now that's in there we should be able to see the registry.
And as you can see we have something full topple.
We also have something for sequence so we know when it encounters a topple instead of using the sequence
like we saw over here.
It's actually going to use the more specific version and call the one that we've defined for topple.
So let's try this one again and you'll see we get something very different.
We just get this representation now.
But the list will go walk as before.
That hasn't changed because we didn't provide something specific for lists.
One last thing I want to mention is maybe some code that you'll run across when people use the single
dispatch.
Keep in mind that once we've actually registered the function with our single DISPATCHER We don't really
care about that function anymore.
So that label that we have here is really irrelevant because we don't call him El toppled directly we
call it by calling him lies and then it figures out which function to call and if it's a topical it
will call whatever H.T. multiple was you know whatever that function is.
But we have to remember that these are just labels.
Labels point to objects and so in this case we're not interested in the label once we've actually registered
it.
So what will happen is something like this.
And let's go back and I'm going to start a a single dispatcher again from scratch.
So let's start here.
OK.
We're going to take single dispatch and we're going to create like sawbuck.
But then what will happen is that people will let's say register something for an integral.
So let's go ahead and let's find that somewhere.
There we go.
I'm just going to copy paste this code and I'm going to put it here.
Actually we'll put it in the next cell.
But what they'll do is that they'll say well I don't really care about the name of the function.
And so they'll replace that with an underscore or maybe a double underscore and then they'll do the
same thing again with maybe string.
So actually let's take the sequence.
So let's go let's add in the sequence
and then let's add in the table as well.
The string
so we don't create that in you know infinite recursion problem.
OK.
And again they don't care about the label here.
And they'll do this and then they'll do this.
OK.
So you might see code written this way.
Personally I don't like this approach very much but it does make a point and the point is that you shouldn't
be calling these functions directly.
You should be only calling them via the single dispatch function the h t implies function.
It's going to pick which function to call.
So it would be done this way.
Now that can be confusing because if you look at the registry for HCM allies you'll notice that we have
object you know it's going to run h tim allies integral is going to run underscore sequence is going
to run underscore and string is also going to run underscore.
So at this point you may be thinking hang on there's something wrong because I can't all be the same
function.
That's what it looks like.
Right it's telling us that this one is this function.
This one's this function and this one's the same function right the same name.
But this is where you have to distinguish between the name the label that's assigned to the function
and the function object.
Remember that the label just points to an object in memory.
So in fact if we call a T.M. eyes on a hundred it does it correctly difficult HVM allies on a list it
does that correctly as well.
So what's going on.
Well remember that when we call this register function.
Right.
So Tim allys top register integral is a function.
It's a decorator and we pass it this function here that's labeled underscore we see that as a label.
Python doesn't look at the label it doesn't really care what that label is.
It cares about what the function is and what is the function.
It's the object in memory.
So what gets registered in the registry isn't the label it's whatever that label is currently pointing
to.
And the same thing happens here when we call registry again we again use this underscores the label
and Python gets this it doesn't care about the label it just says hey what's this label currently pointing
to it's pointing to this function over here.
It's in memory somewhere or some memory address it binds itself to that memory address as a reference.
And the same thing again with the when we do the last register the same thing happens again.
So in fact if we were to look at each of these functions the ID is not going to be the same it's going
to be the ID of those three different functions even though by now of course my underscore and remember
underscore is a legal variable name.
So there's nothing magical about the underscore the underscore is just a variable name.
I could have just told you so called it Python and done it this way and then call this python and do
it this way.
Right.
It doesn't matter.
It's just a convention that people use to indicate that they don't really care about a particular variable.
And we've seen that for example in unpacking intervals.
So if we look now at this function this is the main function which one is it.
Well it's really this one over here because that's the last one right.
That's the last underscore that we defined.
So it's that one over there.
And in fact we can look at the memory addresses of these functions in the registry.
Very simply we can call the dispatch.
So if we call dispatch on let's say integral
and it's H.T. implies I keep doing that then we get this thing here.
If we call him allies dispatch on our string we get this which again looks like the same function.
And if we call the last one
on a sequence again we get the same label because that was the name of the function where it was bound
to it.
However if we look at the memory address of each one you'll notice that
I just put in the IDs for each one.
Now let's execute that.
This is the memory address of the function that's associated with the integral data type.
This is the memory address of the function associated with strings not the same.
And lastly this is the memory address of the function associated with the sequence.
And if we look at the ID of all undiscoverable on this code label will see that it's the string.
Right.
It's the same memory address as string which makes sense because that was the last one that we used.
That was the one that we defined when we registered string.
So don't get confused if you see something like this in code.
It's just because we don't care about the name.
So we end up throwing it away just like we were doing when we were doing our edible unpacking.
For example we unpacked arguments or we unpack topple for example we have this actually we don't even
need the parentheses around over a top all.
So if we have this vague Here's one see is three and underscore is a real variable right.
It's a real variable label.
It's pointing to this object here to it just means though by convention that we don't care.
We saw that as well if we had something like You know we used this kind of unpacking.
So now same thing happened we unpacked one into a c was five the last one and then underscore is now
actually a list that contains 2 3 and 4.
Again this is just a convention that says I don't really care about this variable.
Some people use an underscore.
Some people would use a double underscore.
Kind of depends.
But that's all it means.
So hopefully that's not confusing.
If it is I have some extra notes in the open a notebook that you can look at that you can download along
with this video but that should be pretty straightforward.
So this concludes our look at single dispatch generic functions.
We saw how to build it ourselves.
But of course there were some shortcomings in what we built.
We couldn't use more generic types like sequence or integral.
But if you don't need to you know that would still work properly.
However Python has that already in the standard library for us.
It's in the tools module it's called single dispatch.
It had basically the same kind of base functionality that we had except that it went far beyond what
we implemented and had some more things for example handling the sequence and integral types.
But of course we saw as well that we can introduce bugs if we're not careful.
We saw that when we had a function you know a handler essentially for sequence types we ran into problems
with strings.
We got into an infinite recursion.
So we saw how to get around that problem and we saw how the built in single dispatcher is able to pick
the closest match of the type and the you know in your hierarchical chain of inheritance.
So hopefully you found this interesting.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.